6.1 Classification and Tagging
Test Case 6.1.1: Single Untagged U-Interface
Abstract Test Plan for GPON ONU Conformance
Test Name Single Untagged U-Interface
Test Definition ID ONU.6.1.1
Reference
Document
BBF TR-156i2 [3]
ITU-T G.988 [2]
Test Type Conformance
Test Status Mandatory
Requirement(s)
Description
BBF TR-156i2
R-10 The ONU MUST support adding an S-Tag to upstream untagged traffic received from the U-interface.
R-11 The ONU MUST support removing an S-Tag from downstream traffic received from the OLT.
R-19 The ONU MUST support mapping traffic from one or more GEM Ports to a U-interface in the downstream direction.
R-82 The ONU and OLT MUST support the identification and processing of upstream IGMP messages. When this function is disabled
on a port and/or VLAN, these messages are transparently forwarded. Note: Only the second sentence in R-82 is verified by this test.
Test Objective
The purpose of this test is to verify the ONU’s OMCI implementation, MAC bridge, and filter tables support the minimum functionality
to configure a single U-interface on the ONU to pass untagged traffic across the U-interface. This test verifies both the OMCI
configuration responses and support of active user traffic. The VLAN S-Tag is added to upstream traffic by the ONU before crossing the
R/S-interface and removed from the downstream traffic by the ONU before crossing the U-interface. Note that only the default behaviour
described in the second half of R-82 is verified in this test.
Test
Configuration
 The ONU is powered and connected to ODN.
 The ONU has been activated by the OLT Emulator, has been ranged, and a GEM port for OMCI has been created as a result of ONUID assignment.
 The OLT Emulator has instructed the ONU to reset its MIB to factory default values.
 The Ethernet Traffic Generator/Analyzer is configured to transmit Ethernet frames upstream with the following parameters:
Stream A: Untagged unicast
Stream B: C-tagged unicast (any CVID)
Stream C: S-tagged unicast (any SVID)
Stream D: Untagged multicast
 The OLT Emulator is configured to transmit Ethernet frames downstream with the following parameters:
Stream E: S-tagged unicast (SVID1)
Note: Only 1 user traffic is configured on the ONU requiring 1 GEM port (Alloc-ID, T-CONT, Port-ID).
Test Procedure
 Select a random value for SVID1 between 1 and 4094 and select random values for the MAC addresses.
 Configure the OLT Emulator to provision the ONU to support: A single untagged U-interface, Addition/removal of the S-Tag in the
upstream/downstream directions, respectively
 Cause the OLT Emulator to request the ONU to upload its current MIB.
 Enable any frame capture mechanisms on the OLT Emulator.
 Cause the Ethernet Traffic Generator to transmit upstream frame(s) described in Streams A, B, C, D. Stream D frames must contain
IGMP join reports.
 Enable any frame capture mechanisms on the Ethernet Traffic Generator.
 Cause the OLT Emulator to transmit downstream frame(s) described in Streams E.
Pass/Fail Criteria
The test passes if the following are true, otherwise the test fails:
1. Each OMCI response message shall indicate success for the associated create or set command.
2. The uploaded ONU MIB shall be consistent with the MIB held in the OLT Emulator
3. All upstream frame(s) from Stream A and D shall have been received as S-tagged frame(s) with the VID equal to SVID1 and
TPID=0x88A8.
4. All downstream frame(s) from Stream E shall have been received as untagged frame(s).
5. No upstream frame(s) from Streams B and C shall have been received (e.g. the frames are silently discarded by the ONU).
Remarks
No MAC filtering should be enabled on the ONU during these tests, or it should be configured to allow the test user traffic to pass
through the ONU.